4d game as a first person puzzle game

Juxtapose 3d and 4d puzzles, with 3d serving as primer for the 4d
start with very very simple "puzzles", that teach navigation
down corridors with simple turns / branches

keep things gravity bound; the forward-back/up-down/U(1) seems like a
useful orientation tool.
have visual thematic indicators for particular absolute directions (up/down).
but want to teach that it is natural to swap one's left and right.
need to think carefully about how turning left/right/ana/keta should be
handled wrt to this swapping. maybe i should have a model of how a 4d
agent would actually move. a-priori i would expect U(1) symmetry as the
4d analogue of bilateral symmetry. don't want to think about generalization
of having two eyes.
An alternative to "swapping left and right": a 4d agent has an absolute sense
of left/right/ana/keta wrt to their own frame. eh idunno. the problem is 
probably roughly equivalent to floating around 3d space and not getting
disoriented. Imagine you're a floating cylinder that experiences friction. Spinning around your
axis doesn't accomplish much so why would that be one of your actuators?
all you need to be able to do is thrust forward, and turn left, right, up
and down. 

maybe have initial restrictions on the ability to look up/down to prevent confusion

item collection / button pressing to explore all directions
initial, if not all, puzzles must be trivial in 3d to be tractable

must teach player what they are even looking at

start with a very simple environment. later start adding
ornamentation

familiar, simplified environments, such as
a house with rooms
a desert island (teach how horizons work)
a city block
a river (with / without bridge)
a pond
a beach
a tower?
courtyard

4d environment as an extension of the 3d environment. show the 3d
environment that was just navigated as a slice of the 4d one

spatial orientation puzzles

rolling puzzles
heaven forbid rigid body puzzles


some logic quest shit

is there a way to make faces look like they don't suddenly appear,
maybe by adjusting the opacity, or shading, as if lit?

speaking of lighting... how practical is that?
the fact that shadows are 3d might be interesting